>   **SENG 438 - Software Testing, Reliability, and Quality**

**Lab. Report \#1 – Introduction to Testing and Defect Tracking**

| Group: Group Number 17     |
|-----------------|
| Student 1 Kolby Lalonde                |   
| Student 2 Sadman Shahriar              |   
| Student 3 Nolan Parmar              |   
| Student 4 Siddharth Menon           |   


**Table of Contents**

(When you finish writing, update the following list using right click, then
“Update Field”)

[1 Introduction	1](#_Toc439194677)

[2 High-level description of the exploratory testing plan	1](#_Toc439194677)

[3 Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing	1](#_Toc439194679)

[4 Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports	1](#_Toc439194680)

[5 How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was
divided	1](#_Toc439194681)

[6 Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons
learned	1](#_Toc439194682)

[7 Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself	1](#_Toc439194683)

# Introduction

In this lab we were given a program that's purpose is to allow the user to deposit, withdraw, query and transfer funds to/from his/her hypothetical bank account(s). The goal would be to use our knowledge of different testing methods to gain a basic understanding of new software testing concepts. Three key concepts we will discover from the lab are:
Practical experience in testing a software system.
Knowledge of the differences between exploratory, manual scripted, and regression testing.
Familiarity with industrial defect tracking systems, processes, and practices.
Before starting this lab our knowledge of exploratory and manual functional testing was limited to what we learned in lectures. This was that exploratory testing is all about testing the system as you use it. There is no exact plan to test the functionality of the but rather ideas for testing are discovered as you go. However, with the manual function testing scripts are designed to lay out the exact way the program will be tested. This script will include test cases and steps which are documented. No deviation from the original testing plans will be made. In short, an exploratory test is dynamic and may change where a manual test has a strict plan to abide by. Our understanding of these methods are to be further developed through the completion of this lab.


# High-level description of the exploratory testing plan

To accomplish the exploratory testing portion of the assignment we have created the following plan. We will begin by categorising the testing to target each of the specific use cases. We want to test the specific functions of system startup/shutdown, PIN entry and transactions such as withdraw, deposit or transfer. By testing each use case to some extent we will better understand the system as a whole. Our approach will be to test the broad scope of the system rather than only a few functions extensively. Our test cases will follow the most common paths of the system to determine whether the function is working as expected or has underlying issues.

# Comparison of exploratory and manual functional testing

Text…

-   Note that you need to submit a report generated by your defect tracking
    system, containing all defects recorded in the system.

# Notes and discussion of the peer reviews of defect reports

Text…

# How the pair testing was managed and team work/effort was divided 

Text…

# Difficulties encountered, challenges overcome, and lessons learned

Text…

# Comments/feedback on the lab and lab document itself

Text…
